docs/usage.md, before:

# Usage Guide

This guide explains how to run the Ansible playbook that configures and starts Xray with VLESS `flow=xtls-rprx-vision` using Docker Compose.

## Prerequisites
- A Linux host with root privileges (Ansible `become: true` is used).
- Outbound internet access so the playbook can install Docker Engine and pull required container images.
- Open TCP ports 80 (temporary for certificate issuance) and the public TLS port you choose (default 443).
- DNS A record pointing your domain to the host.
- Ansible 2.14+ on the control machine triggering the playbook.
- `openssl` available on the target host for certificate validation.

## Required Variables
Pass the following variables via `--extra-vars` or inventory:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `xray_domain` | Fully qualified domain name serving Xray. |
| `xray_email` | Email address used for Let’s Encrypt registration and expiry notices. |
| `xray_uuid` | UUID for the VLESS client. Generate with `uuidgen`. |

### Optional Variables
| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `project_root` | `/opt/xray` | Root directory for generated assets. |
| `certificates_dir` | `{{ project_root }}/certificates` | Host directory where certificates are stored. |
| `letsencrypt_image` | `certbot/certbot:latest` | Container image used to request certificates. |
| `letsencrypt_staging` | `false` | Use Let’s Encrypt staging API to avoid rate limits. |
| `force_regenerate_certs` | `false` | Set to `true` to force a new certificate request. |
| `xray_inbound_port` | `443` | Public TLS port exposed by Xray. |
| `xray_service_port` | `443` | Internal container port (defaults to same as inbound). |
| `xray_certificate_path` | `{{ certificates_dir }}/live/{{ xray_domain }}/fullchain.pem` | Host path of the Let’s Encrypt certificate. |
| `xray_private_key_path` | `{{ certificates_dir }}/live/{{ xray_domain }}/privkey.pem` | Host path of the Let’s Encrypt private key. |
| `xray_flow` | `xtls-rprx-vision` | Flow value for the VLESS client. |
| `xray_client_email` | `client@example.com` | Identifier stored in the Xray client list. |
| `xray_log_level` | `warning` | Log level for Xray. |
| `compose_project_directory` | `{{ project_root }}/compose` | Directory containing rendered Docker Compose assets. |
| `xray_config_dir` | `{{ project_root }}/xray` | Directory where `config.json` is rendered. |
| `xray_image` | `ghcr.io/xtls/xray-core:25.10.15` | Docker image used for the Xray service. |
| `xray_container_user` | `0:0` | UID:GID that the Xray container runs as. Set to an empty string to use the image default. |
| `xray_container_name` | `xray` | Container name used for post-deployment validation and manual troubleshooting. |
| `xray_container_certificate_path` | `/etc/ssl/live/{{ xray_domain }}/fullchain.pem` | Certificate path inside the container referenced by Xray config. |
| `xray_container_private_key_path` | `/etc/ssl/live/{{ xray_domain }}/privkey.pem` | Private key path inside the container referenced by Xray config. |
| `xray_alpn` | `["h2", "http/1.1"]` | ALPN values advertised to TLS clients. |
| `docker_compose_up` | `true` | Disable if you only want to render files without starting containers. |
| `xray_restart_policy` | `unless-stopped` | Compose restart policy applied to the Xray service. |
| `xray_host_port` | `{{ xray_inbound_port }}` | Host-side port published by Docker (defaults to the inbound port). |
| `xray_container_port` | `{{ xray_service_port }}` | Container-side port exposed by Docker (defaults to the service port). |
| `xray_compose_environment` | `{}` | Optional environment variables injected into the Xray container. |
| `xray_compose_networks` | `[]` | Extra Docker networks to attach to the Xray container. |
| `xray_deploy_wait_seconds` | `60` | Initial delay after applying Compose before health checks run. |
| `xray_deploy_recovery_wait_seconds` | `30` | Delay between recovery attempts and re-checking container status. |
| `xray_deploy_log_tail_lines` | `300` | Number of log lines printed when the container fails to stabilise. |
| `xray_common_docker_user` | `ubuntu` | User added to the `docker` group when Docker is installed by the playbook. |

## Running the Playbook
Create or reuse an inventory file such as `ansible/inventory/hosts.ini`:

```
[local]
127.0.0.1 ansible_connection=local
```

Run the playbook (the bundled `ansible.cfg` already points to the local inventory and roles directory):

```
ansible-playbook ansible/playbooks/site.yml \
  --extra-vars "xray_domain=example.com xray_email=admin@example.com xray_uuid=$(uuidgen)"
```

To validate changes without touching the host, add `--check` and `docker_compose_up=false`. Certificate issuance and container management automatically skip when Ansible runs in check mode.

### Forcing Certificate Re-Issuance
To bypass existing certificates:

```
ansible-playbook ansible/playbooks/site.yml \
  --extra-vars "xray_domain=example.com xray_email=admin@example.com xray_uuid=$(uuidgen) force_regenerate_certs=true"
```

### Running from Terraform
An end-to-end example is located at [`terraform/examples/main.tf`](../terraform/examples/main.tf). It connects over SSH to a remote host where this repository is checked out and executes the playbook with the variables provided by Terraform:

```
resource "null_resource" "xray" {
  provisioner "remote-exec" {
    connection {
      type    = "ssh"
      host    = var.host
      user    = var.user
      agent   = true
      timeout = "5m"
    }

    inline = [
      "sudo ansible-playbook -i /opt/less-vision/ansible/inventory/hosts.ini /opt/less-vision/ansible/playbooks/site.yml --extra-vars 'xray_domain=${var.domain} xray_email=${var.email} xray_uuid=${var.uuid}'"
    ]
  }
}
```

Adjust the inline commands to fit your provisioning flow (for example, install Ansible on the remote host or run the playbook locally with `local-exec`).

### Deploying from GitHub Actions
Manual deployments can be triggered with the [`Deploy service`](../.github/workflows/deploy.yml) workflow. It validates that the requested GitHub Environment exists, checks for the required secrets (`HOST_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`, `EMAIL`, `UUID`) and environment variables (`REMOTE_SERVER_IP_ADDRESS`, `REMOTE_SERVER_USER`, `TARGET_DOMAIN_NAME`, optional `XRAY_INBOUND_PORT`), then dynamically builds an inventory file before running the same playbook via SSH. Successful runs print ready-to-import client connection URIs for popular applications.

## Continuous Integration
The [`CI`](../.github/workflows/ci.yml) workflow installs Ansible, runs `ansible-playbook --syntax-check`, and after those checks succeed triggers the reusable deployment workflow against the `flatwhite` environment. This keeps the deployment verification gated on the faster validation steps while ensuring the end-to-end playbook still functions.

## Verification Steps
Immediately before starting the bundled Xray service, the playbook stops and removes any running containers that either expose port 443 or use an image containing the `xray` keyword. After bringing the service up it waits `xray_deploy_wait_seconds` (60 seconds by default), verifies the container status, and prints the latest logs if the container is not running. When the container is missing or stopped the role automatically re-runs `docker compose up -d --remove-orphans` once and re-checks the health before failing.

1. Verify containers are running: `docker compose -f /opt/xray/compose/docker-compose.yml ps`.
2. Test TLS certificate: `openssl s_client -connect example.com:443 -servername example.com`.
3. Validate Xray config inside container: `docker compose -f /opt/xray/compose/docker-compose.yml exec xray xray -test -confdir /usr/local/etc/xray`.

## Troubleshooting
- **Port 80 in use**: Stop any service occupying port 80 before requesting certificates.
- **DNS propagation**: Ensure your domain resolves to the host before issuance.
- **Rate limits**: Use `letsencrypt_staging=true` during initial testing.
- **Permission issues**: Run playbook with sudo/become if writing under `/opt`.

Commit message:

Ensure deploy summary uses final parameters

docs/usage.md, after:

# Usage Guide

This guide explains how to run the Ansible playbook that configures and starts Xray with VLESS `flow=xtls-rprx-vision` using Docker Compose.

## Prerequisites
- A Linux host with root privileges (Ansible `become: true` is used).
- Outbound internet access so the playbook can install Docker Engine and pull required container images.
- Open TCP ports 80 (temporary for certificate issuance) and the public TLS port you choose (default 443).
- DNS A record pointing your domain to the host.
- Ansible 2.14+ on the control machine triggering the playbook.
- `openssl` available on the target host for certificate validation.

## Required Variables
Pass the following variables via `--extra-vars` or inventory:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `xray_domain` | Fully qualified domain name serving Xray. |
| `xray_email` | Email address used for Let’s Encrypt registration and expiry notices. |
| `xray_uuid` | UUID for the VLESS client. Generate with `uuidgen`. |

### Optional Variables
| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `project_root` | `/opt/xray` | Root directory for generated assets. |
| `certificates_dir` | `{{ project_root }}/certificates` | Host directory where certificates are stored. |
| `letsencrypt_image` | `certbot/certbot:latest` | Container image used to request certificates. |
| `letsencrypt_staging` | `false` | Use Let’s Encrypt staging API to avoid rate limits. |
| `force_regenerate_certs` | `false` | Set to `true` to force a new certificate request. |
| `xray_inbound_port` | `443` | Public TLS port exposed by Xray. |
| `xray_service_port` | `443` | Internal container port (defaults to same as inbound). |
| `xray_certificate_path` | `{{ certificates_dir }}/live/{{ xray_domain }}/fullchain.pem` | Host path of the Let’s Encrypt certificate. |
| `xray_private_key_path` | `{{ certificates_dir }}/live/{{ xray_domain }}/privkey.pem` | Host path of the Let’s Encrypt private key. |
| `xray_flow` | `xtls-rprx-vision` | Flow value for the VLESS client. |
| `xray_client_email` | `client@example.com` | Identifier stored in the Xray client list. |
| `xray_log_level` | `warning` | Log level for Xray. |
| `compose_project_directory` | `{{ project_root }}/compose` | Directory containing rendered Docker Compose assets. |
| `xray_config_dir` | `{{ project_root }}/xray` | Directory where `config.json` is rendered. |
| `xray_image` | `ghcr.io/xtls/xray-core:25.10.15` | Docker image used for the Xray service. |
| `xray_container_user` | `0:0` | UID:GID that the Xray container runs as. Set to an empty string to use the image default. |
| `xray_container_name` | `xray` | Container name used for post-deployment validation and manual troubleshooting. |
| `xray_container_certificate_path` | `/etc/ssl/live/{{ xray_domain }}/fullchain.pem` | Certificate path inside the container referenced by Xray config. |
| `xray_container_private_key_path` | `/etc/ssl/live/{{ xray_domain }}/privkey.pem` | Private key path inside the container referenced by Xray config. |
| `xray_alpn` | `["h2", "http/1.1"]` | ALPN values advertised to TLS clients. |
| `docker_compose_up` | `true` | Disable if you only want to render files without starting containers. |
| `xray_restart_policy` | `unless-stopped` | Compose restart policy applied to the Xray service. |
| `xray_host_port` | `{{ xray_inbound_port }}` | Host-side port published by Docker (defaults to the inbound port). |
| `xray_container_port` | `{{ xray_service_port }}` | Container-side port exposed by Docker (defaults to the service port). |
| `xray_compose_environment` | `{}` | Optional environment variables injected into the Xray container. |
| `xray_compose_networks` | `[]` | Extra Docker networks to attach to the Xray container. |
| `xray_deploy_wait_seconds` | `60` | Initial delay after applying Compose before health checks run. |
| `xray_deploy_recovery_wait_seconds` | `30` | Delay between recovery attempts and re-checking container status. |
| `xray_deploy_log_tail_lines` | `300` | Number of log lines printed when the container fails to stabilise. |
| `xray_common_docker_user` | `ubuntu` | User added to the `docker` group when Docker is installed by the playbook. |

## Running the Playbook
Create or reuse an inventory file such as `ansible/inventory/hosts.ini`:

```
[local]
127.0.0.1 ansible_connection=local
```

Run the playbook (the bundled `ansible.cfg` already points to the local inventory and roles directory):

```
ansible-playbook ansible/playbooks/site.yml \
  --extra-vars "xray_domain=example.com xray_email=admin@example.com xray_uuid=$(uuidgen)"
```

To validate changes without touching the host, add `--check` and `docker_compose_up=false`. Certificate issuance and container management automatically skip when Ansible runs in check mode.

### Forcing Certificate Re-Issuance
To bypass existing certificates:

```
ansible-playbook ansible/playbooks/site.yml \
  --extra-vars "xray_domain=example.com xray_email=admin@example.com xray_uuid=$(uuidgen) force_regenerate_certs=true"
```

### Running from Terraform
An end-to-end example is located at [`terraform/examples/main.tf`](../terraform/examples/main.tf). It connects over SSH to a remote host where this repository is checked out and executes the playbook with the variables provided by Terraform:

```
resource "null_resource" "xray" {
  provisioner "remote-exec" {
    connection {
      type    = "ssh"
      host    = var.host
      user    = var.user
      agent   = true
      timeout = "5m"
    }

    inline = [
      "sudo ansible-playbook -i /opt/less-vision/ansible/inventory/hosts.ini /opt/less-vision/ansible/playbooks/site.yml --extra-vars 'xray_domain=${var.domain} xray_email=${var.email} xray_uuid=${var.uuid}'"
    ]
  }
}
```

Adjust the inline commands to fit your provisioning flow (for example, install Ansible on the remote host or run the playbook locally with `local-exec`).

### Deploying from GitHub Actions
Manual deployments can be triggered with the [`Deploy service`](../.github/workflows/deploy.yml) workflow. It validates that the requested GitHub Environment exists, prompts for the target domain, remote SSH user, and host IP address, and lets you optionally override the UUID used for the client configuration (otherwise it falls back to the environment secret). The workflow still verifies required secrets (`HOST_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`, `EMAIL`) and optional variables such as `XRAY_INBOUND_PORT`, dynamically builds an inventory file, then runs the same playbook via SSH. Successful runs print ready-to-import client connection URIs for popular applications using the final domain and UUID values supplied to the run.

## Continuous Integration
The [`CI`](../.github/workflows/ci.yml) workflow installs Ansible and runs `ansible-playbook --syntax-check` against the bundled playbook. Deployments are no longer triggered automatically from CI; run the manual workflow when you want to push changes to an environment.

## Verification Steps
Immediately before starting the bundled Xray service, the playbook stops and removes any running containers that either expose port 443 or use an image containing the `xray` keyword. After bringing the service up it waits `xray_deploy_wait_seconds` (60 seconds by default), verifies the container status, and prints the latest logs if the container is not running. When the container is missing or stopped the role automatically re-runs `docker compose up -d --remove-orphans` once and re-checks the health before failing.

1. Verify containers are running: `docker compose -f /opt/xray/compose/docker-compose.yml ps`.
2. Test TLS certificate: `openssl s_client -connect example.com:443 -servername example.com`.
3. Validate Xray config inside container: `docker compose -f /opt/xray/compose/docker-compose.yml exec xray xray -test -confdir /usr/local/etc/xray`.

## Troubleshooting
- **Port 80 in use**: Stop any service occupying port 80 before requesting certificates.
- **DNS propagation**: Ensure your domain resolves to the host before issuance.
- **Rate limits**: Use `letsencrypt_staging=true` during initial testing.
- **Permission issues**: Run playbook with sudo/become if writing under `/opt`.
